---
layout: post
title:  "Miniconda on Windows 10"
date:   2018-05-13 16:00:00
categories: windows code python 
---

I'm at [Pycon 2018][pycon]. It's been lovely; the keynotes, the dinners, the talks, the people --- all of it.

The [development sprints][sprints] are a part of conference I am particularly interested in, and the organisers created [a helpful workshop][workshop] to help prepare folks.

Part of this is installing Anaconda as a way of driving virtual environments. It's a good plan, and even though Visual Studio Express installs one for you already, I decided to be strict about all this and download it [from here][miniconda], as directed.

Of course, once I did so, I opened up a console window and -- nothing. No "conda". But I hadn't told the installer to mess with my %PATH%, so that makes sense. The installer *does* claim that there's a shortcut that it will place for a console. Except that the only shortcut was for Visual Studio's Anaconda.

And instead I hit maybe [this issue][bug]? It's three years old. It has folks commenting on it for all but this year.

To solve, I:
* opened a regular console
* navigated to where Anaconda is installed
* did a `conda install conda_shortcut`

The result was another item in the Start menu that pointed, indeed, to the correct Anaconda.

BUT, it's in the *Recently Added* list, and when I look at the folder its in, it is *not listed* on the Start Menu, as it has the same name as an existing folder. Instead, it's in the roaming profile section and now, I assume, being hidden by Visual Studio's entry.

So I don't know if that bug is what I hit, or whether the installer silently failed in trying to overwrite a value, or whether it was right all along and the duplicate I have has been hiding it.

There are no good answers here. I think I've done reasonable things (installed a dev tool, Visual Studio, and then installed another dev tool, Anaconda, on the same machine). Is Visual Studio to blame for the way it sub-installs Anaconda? Should the miniconda installer be smarter? Is that bug something I hit and now I'm seeing a 2nd issue?

All I can say is:
* warning: miniconda installer may require a package to write a shortcut link for a console
* warning: installing multiple anacondas may have side effects


[pycon]:https://us.pycon.org/2018
[miniconda]:https://conda.io/miniconda.html
[sprints]:https://us.pycon.org/2018/community/sprints/
[workshop]:https://github.com/chalmerlowe/intro_to_sprinting
[bug]:https://github.com/ContinuumIO/anaconda-issues/issues/352